So pins provides a way to easily share things, either across projects or across people. What
ends up happening oftentimes in data science work? We have some asset, and maybe it's data
or it's a model or some other R object. And we either need to reuse this asset later on
downstream or across different projects, or we might need to share it with different members
of our team. We say anything that can be serializable in R. So think about how you might stick something
on a corkboard so you can keep it handy, right? Or you'd stick a flyer on a community bulletin
board at the grocery store, right? So that other people can see it. And so the pins package pins
objects to what's called a board. This is analogous to this corkboard idea. And so this board is this
place where files are written and they're read from. Examples of boards are things like you can
have a board that's S3 storage, shared folders like network drives or Dropbox. You can have
your RStudio Connect be a board, a SharePoint site be a board. Really, it's just a file store,
a file share. Nothing magical about that. It's just pins has a nomenclature and a way of organizing
things in this place on the board so that you can interact with them through the package.
Okay. So what I'm hearing is I can pin all kinds of things in all kinds of locations.
Yes.
It works nicely with Connect, but there's nothing specifically implemented in pins
for Connect. They're the things that Connect does to make life for pins a little bit better.
Connect will give you access to the same sharing content sharing settings that you have for any
piece of content on Connect. So I can put my pin on Connect and I can specify who
should be able to access it and share it. And then pins does have a nice preview
of the pinned object. I like that feature, but that's a Connect implementation
for how it reads pins, nothing specific in the pins package itself.
So if I work by myself, either for whatever reason, I am a team of one, how might I use pins?
A lot comes down to what are your pain points and what do you have available to you already
for storing data, sharing data, accessing data downstream, things like that.
Right. So do you, in your team of one, do you need to reuse something in other work?
Right. Do you have like a reference table or, you know, some kind of other information
that multiple projects are going to use? You might need to come back to this.
Pins could be a pretty good use case for that. Right. Or, you know, do you just not have a
convenient place to put things? You know, pins comes in and gets to be really helpful
when you just maybe don't have another place to store data. Sometimes, you know, teams that don't
have ready access to a database, you know, find pins to be pretty helpful because it kind of
makes them self-sufficient. They can be more autonomous in this way. You don't have the
mechanism to, you know, either get ahold of a database or have one set up or even like the
data that you're working with isn't, I'm sorry, worthy of being in the database. Right. Then
you can use a pin as a place to, I'm going to have this nice location where it's organized,
it's versioned. I can work through cached versions of it as well. So things go faster.
And it helps to alleviate other pain points. If you have places, like if putting things in
Dropbox or in GitHub or if those things are working for you already, then, you know, you
don't need to bring this tool into your toolbox per se. Sort of like what pain points do you have
and what needs do you maybe have in terms of being able to track versions or share things more readily.
That was sort of my entry point for pins too, is working with Excel files just like that. Right.
And what do you do when you've got this Excel file in your workflow? At some point, you're
going to get another version of it. Right. And either on the file server where the file's stored
or in your code, every time there's a new version, you're going to go in there and rename it. Right.
And so it's going to be final version one or latest copy or whatever. Right.
Final, final, final.
Right. With your initials on the end. So somewhere along the line, you're going to be putting some
kind of hacked versioning nomenclature on it. And there's this introducing possibility for error,
of course. Right. How many times you've gone in and you've run your whole analysis and realized,
oh, I forgot to change the read underscore CSV to the latest version. Right. Or, you know,
or you actually have more rigor of going to the file server and changing the file name so that
the latest version is always called whatever, you know, data.csv and then everything else is
archived. In some form or fashion, you're implementing this hacky way of keeping things
current. Whereas with pins, right, you can pin that CSV. And so pins has different options for
versioning. But, you know, fundamentally, you can have pins always pull the latest version.
And so whenever, you know, your code just says pin read, you know, data from my pin board,
it's always going to pull the latest version. Or if you want to get specific,
you can say, I want this particular version always each every time so that even if new
versions come online, then you're always referencing the specific one.
Let's say I'm using Dropbox. Do I just get one board? Or can I set up different boards for
different projects? Or is it like one board per system? Like I get one Dropbox board,
one Google Drive board, one Connect board. Yeah, it took it took me a while to kind of get my mind
around what's this thing called a board. It sounds like there's magic under the hood or something
really special about boards. There's nothing really super exciting about boards per se.
It's a file path. Basically, it's a file path. So I have on my screen here, this is my browser
window here, right? I started a Dropbox location, I have a folder called pins, like I manually
created this folder called pins. And so earlier today, I just started pinning stuff. But this,
this is all that my board is. My board is a file path that's users, Katie, Dropbox,
pins. And this is, this is where I've defined it. This is my board. And what happens when you
define a board, it just says like, this is where I'm going to go write or read my files and where
they live. You know, and while we're here, right, what are these, what are these magical mythical
pins look like on the file path? It's not that special. So it's, it's a hash of the date and the
time and a particular hash for the pin itself. And two things inside. Here's an RDS file with my,
my classic Penguins data. And here's a text file. It's just got metadata included in it.
So, you know, if, if I wanted to, I can go and just go into my code and read that RDS file
manually. Now it's not like once a pin, always a pin. It's just a thing. It's just a serializable
thing in R, but pins is going to make it easier for me to find these locations, work with them in
a consistent manner, pull them in, read them in and kind of interpret and work with this metadata overall.
One of the first things that you do with pins is define your board, right? And like I said,
your board can be on connect, it can be on S3, it can be GitHub or, or, or folder URL, local or
whatever. So in this case, just, I like being able to sort of see what we're doing while we're playing.
So I'm creating this board. That's just a folder. This folder happens to be my Dropbox
path here, right? But I can, to my heart's content, let's make another board and
make it versioned. We'll talk about that in a second. Folder. Oh gosh, I'm going to have to type all this.
You know the autocomplete? Dropbox. This is fabulous.
And
root. So I've created two different definitions for my board. Okay. This one's versioned.
This one, oh sorry. This one is not versioned. This one is versioned. It's the same file path.
Okay. I can have multiple boards, right? I'm just describing with each definition of board
I'm just describing where it is, how I'm accessing it and different characteristics of it. So for
example, you know, these two different boards, regular board and board versioned, I'm just saying
when I'm using this file path, when I'm using this board, either do or don't automatically keep
multiple versions of my pin for me.
And so there's different ways, you know, for dealing with versions. You can define things
at this higher level, on the board level, and says anything that I pin to this board, I want it
automatically to be versioned. You know, and for example, if you're doing a RStudio Connect board,
by default, the RSConnect board itself is versioned equals true, just out of the box default.
But typically, typically the versioning is false, is turned off by default.
And if so, then you can also then do versioning at the pin level. And so you can see down here,
as I've defined my pin, getting ahead of ourselves, define my pin, I can specify,
even if my board isn't versioned, I can make my specific pin
versioned and then have different, different iterations of it. Okay. That's, that's really cool.
Caching is another nice feature, right? That once you pull, once you, once you've got it set up,
you pulled in your pin, there will be a cached version of that. And so it will only pull a fresh
version if the data has changed. And so it can be a time saver utilizing that cache overall.
Are there some limits? Can I just pin everything?
No, no, that would be irresponsible. There's, you need to think a little bit about what's
appropriate. So there's sort of two elements, right? What's appropriate in terms of what
are you trying to pin? Is it something that maybe belongs in a database?
You know, don't, don't use pins for long-term archival storage of data, right? Things like
your, your crown jewel data. Don't make that a pin. That needs to go in a database, right? There
are best practices around data and databases and backing things up and access all these things.
Don't replace your databases with pins. A good practice is to make the pinnable object something
that is reproducible, right? Don't count on your pin being your source of truth for all of eternity.
Make sure it's something that you can programmatically reproduce.
Pins are often really good with like ephemeral data, stuff that's just like coming in,
it's sort of in the middle of my process. I kind of need to stick this somewhere and
then be done and keep working with it. Ephemeral data is really good, really lightweight data,
you know, lookup tables, stuff like that. Things that make your life easier is good to use for a
pin. And then in terms of size, a few hundred megabytes is great. If it's really, if it's too
big for Excel, it's too big to pin. Don't place it. So, we talked about boards already, right?
Boards, it's not magic. Think of it just as a file path. Where am I going? And so, in this case,
let's just use this board here. That is my Dropbox location. Get rid of this one here.
If I'm on the board, so first of all, I can just do a quick query. It's like, what's out there?
So, I'm going to do board and pins is pipeable, which is nice. So, you can work with it, right?
I typically, you know, define my board as my first step and then pipe that into all of my
different functions. So, we'll pipe board into pin list and you can see here's all of my pins that I
have. And this is mimicking, right? It's bringing in what you can see here in my file browser.
There's also, if you're not quite sure what's out there or if you kind of want to get more
information, pin search is nice. Pin search will search the names and the titles of your pins.
So, in this instance, I don't have very many pins. So, I'm just going to search with a blank query
with the double quotation marks. And it does present kind of in a nicer format than just the
list that we got in the last one, right? You can see a little bit more information we created
and the file size and whatnot. And like I said, it will search the name and the title.
So, if I'm looking for penguins, I've got two pins, right? I've got penguins and I have
not penguins, right? So, searching those different things.
But this is good for finding things, right? You can also, so pins has metadata associated with
them, which can be pretty helpful. So, I've got this pin here. It's not super exciting,
but it's just a timestamp. But the metadata associated with that, I can see what it is.
And in this case, when I pinned it, you can also include your own custom metadata.
So, that can be very useful as you're building out a project or you want to put specific things
into that metadata. There is a place to put that into the metadata. You can see how I put that in
up here as I wrote this pin. And I just specified the metadata as a list. I love that.
And then different versions. We've talked about versions, right? So, I can see what versions I
have. So, here are my pins versions for timestamps. I've got five different versions.
And let's just see for sanity, right? Over here in my actual file browser,
here's my five different versions. And you can see, you know, I mean, it does get to be
duplicative, right? It's just copy, copy, copy, one after another. So, it's not the smartest package
in terms of file space, right? This is kind of going back to this use pins if it makes your life
easier. It's kind of quick and dirty and it's there to help you to kind of get things done.
Are there more elegant ways of doing things? Sure. Are there maybe better workflows for long-term
archival data storage? Absolutely. But pins is definitely useful in these use cases.
So, we've talked about the pin read and the pin write and the pin read functions. There is another
set of functions for pin upload and pin download. And so, these kind of take a little bit of an
abstraction layer further out. And really, this is for being able to pin any kind of file. So,
this is for being able to pin any kind of file. Like an Rdata file, for example, right? So,
if you have an Rdata file, again, here's my board, my Dropbox board. I have this Rdata file.
And what is it, right? It's just this collection of mine for different variables and things that
I like to have for breakfast. So, if I wanted to put this on a board, I'd use the pin upload
function. And pin upload, right? We can sort of see what's going to happen over here. I have this
over here, right? And this is looking familiar, right? Here's my hash, but here's my Rdata file
itself. No magic there, right? Here's my metadata. And it's just tidily nested over here in my
file folder. And you'll note here, right? It's replaced the version that I had before,
as opposed to appending a version, because I didn't tell it I want a version to board.
And so, the complement to pin upload is pin download. And what pin download does
is it returns a path to the cached file that it's downloaded, right? So, what does that look like?
Here's my output. Here's where it's living. Here's where it's downloaded that file and cached it.
And so, I can now, right? If I want to bring that object in, pins, board, path to cached file,
right? I have my path and let's just load it. So, you can use pin upload and pin download
to be able to bring other objects, files, things like that, into that structure that pins provides
for being able to read metadata, play with versions, call things, have caching, things like that.
It's one of the legacy functions in the API, and sort of what that means, right? So, the first
iteration, I would say, of the pins package had a different overall format and different API behind
it for doing the read and write functions. And so, in, gosh, maybe nine months ago, maybe a year ago,
I don't know. Pandemic time. Pandemic time. It doesn't make sense anymore. A little while ago,
a new version, a new API version of pins came out. And it started with pins version 1.0. We're at
1.01 right now, I believe. And that retooled, under the hood, the API. And so, I'm going to
retooled, under the hood, the API that was calling and writing and interacting with pin boards.
And we also saw some of the older functions drop off. That being said, though, that doesn't mean,
so Google Cloud doesn't mean that that's not going to be a board in the future. There's currently an
issue right now on the repo to bring Google Cloud as one of the new implementations of boards. And
really, it's just a matter of if that's something that's useful for folks. We just need people to
go in and put a plus one on the issue to help weigh the priority for developing that.
So, we've talked about pinning data, pinning data frames, things like that. But pinning models is a
really nice workflow. And all of the work that Julia's been doing around Vetiver, I think,
showcases that really nicely. And so, what you can do with the package, right, with Vetiver,
you can pin a Vetiver model. And then with that, you'll have all of the information about that
model that you need to deploy it and call it and work with it. And so, then you can then call that
model or different versions of that model into other assets downstream, right? So, a super simple
example of that. So, earlier today, let's see, what do I have? I borrowed some of Julia's nice
work here. A model that she has just demonstrated here with home prices in Sacramento. She's using
a random Boris model. And creating this model, saving it as a Vetiver model. And if we do this,
right, let's actually look at this, what this looks like. All right. So, what is V? V is a
ranger regression modeling workflow using core features. So, with this, I'm going to pin this.
In this case, again, I'm going to just pin it on my Dropbox folder. So, we'll pin this. And
where's my model? So, I have these different models here.
And now, I'm going to use this model. So, first of all, one of these workflows that she's
illustrated is to wrap this model up into an API so that you can ping it and query it, right? So,
right. So, I'll take this model and my background job here.
There's functions within the Vetiver package for creating a Vetiver API.
In this case, I'm just going to run this locally. I could publish my API. I could publish it
somewhere, host it on Connect, or host it in some other place that I have in my infrastructure.
But right now, I'm just going to run this locally so I can ping off of this.
And what this looks like, so, if we run this, this is just running locally. This has a nice
swagger interface so I can test out and check, try my model, right? So, first, I'm going to
just do a this is just a ping, right? And it's just responding with the time and the date.
But if I want to run this locally, so, I'm actually going to run this as a background job
because when this is running, let me run this again,
right, if this is running, it's just consuming and occupying my console so I can't interact with it.
So, a whole lot of good that does this. I'm going to run this as a background job
so that I can interact and still play with my console. So, here's my background job.
And I'm going to run this. And this is now running. So, I just go to a browser.
All right. Let's pull up a browser window.
So, here I am in a browser window. Just like we had in the preview.
But now I have a console window. Okay. And so, I'm going to use my model that's been pinned.
And I'm going to define an endpoint. My endpoint is this prediction endpoint here.
And I'm going to create some new data. And then predict off that endpoint.
And so, I just run predictions off of that pinned model
that I have hosted that I have running as an API in the background.
But what's nice is that, right, in this model that I'm running,
I remember I pulled it from a pen. I specified the version. So, say I had a different version
of this model that I wanted to run. Well, let's see, you know, which versions do I have? I've
got three different versions right here. I want to instead, you know, grab this version. So,
right, if I wanted to use this version, then I would just change here which particular version
that I'd be reading in from my pen and serving up via my API overall. And so, this is a nice
way that you can toggle back and forth and try different versions of your pinned model.